Linux command-line pass code generator (TOTP codes) for codes stored in the Google Authenticator App.

# Background
As of the time of this writing, Google Authenticator seems to be available on Android but not on Linux.  This script is used to extract the secret keys from a Google Authenticator QR export code for purposes of genrerating a time-based pass code. 

# Requirements
This package is known to work on Ubuntu 24.04, and it should work on other versions as well. 

## OS Package: 
`protobuf-compiler/noble`  -- this package is used to auto-gen the protocol definition

## Python modules:
List of modules needed to operate the script.
```
Package  Version
-------- -------
pillow   11.0.0
pip      24.0
protobuf 5.29.2
pyotp    2.9.0
pyzbar   0.1.9
```

# Installation
These steps assume that you have exported your Google Authenticator QR encoded codes as *png file(s) and saved them under ~/my/qr/codes/*png. 

## We install the protobuf-compiler package
`sudo apt install protobuf-compiler`

## Check out the package
`git clone https://github.com/jwlandon/Google-Authenticator-Decoder.git`

##  Optionally create a virtual environment
A virtual environment allows you to have crisp control of python modules.  This step is not required but recommended.  If you decide to operate in a virtual environment, you must activate it upon each use.  If you are comfortable permanently installing the required python packages, then skip this step.

### verify you can see the package contents
```
$ ls -l Google-Authenticator-Decoder/
total 56
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon 34523 Dec 27 15:04 LICENSE
drwxrwxr-x 2 jwlandon jwlandon  4096 Dec 27 15:08 proto
drwxrwxr-x 2 jwlandon jwlandon  4096 Dec 27 15:04 qr_codes
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon  6185 Dec 27 15:04 qr_decoder.py
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon   135 Dec 27 15:04 README.md
$
```
### build the environment
From the package's parent directory:
`python3 -m venv Google-Authenticator-Decoder`

### change directories into the environment
`cd Google-Authenticator-Decoder`

### activate the environment
`source bin/activate`

## Compile the migration proto definition file
Check the directory before we build:
```
$ cd ~/Google-Authenticator-Decoder    # assuming you installed it under your home directory!
$ ls -l proto/
total 8
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon  65 Dec 27 15:06 __init__.py
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon 730 Dec 27 15:04 migration.proto
```
Run protoc to autogen the definition script
```
$ protoc --python_out=. proto/migration.proto
```
Verify the script was built:
```
$ ls -l proto/
total 12
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon   65 Dec 27 15:06 __init__.py
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon 2586 Dec 27 15:08 migration_pb2.py   <-- auto-generated by protoc
-rw-rw-r-- 1 jwlandon jwlandon  730 Dec 27 15:04 migration.proto
```
## Install required modules using pip
```
# We install required pip modules
$ pip install pillow pyzbar protobuf pyotp

# We verify modules exist by running "pip list"

Package  Version
-------- -------
pillow   11.0.0
pip      24.0
protobuf 5.29.2
pyotp    2.9.0
pyzbar   0.1.9
```
## Decode the sample png file included in this package by running: 
```
$ python3 qr_decoder.py
```

## Place Google Authenticator exported QR code png files into Google-Authenticator-Decoder/qr_codes/
```
$ cp ~/my/qr/codes/*png ~/Google-Authenticator-Decoder/qr_codes/
```

# SIMPLIFIED INSTALLATION STEPS
0. sudo apt install protobuf-compiler
1. python3 -m venv Google-Authenticator-Decoder
2. cd Google-Authenticator-Decoder
3. source bin/activate
4. pip install pillow pyzbar protobuf pyotp 
5. python3 qr_decoder.py
